.\" Hey, Emacs! This is an -*- nroff -*- source file.
.\" Copyright (c) 2000 Manoj Srivastava <srivasta@debian.org>
.\" Copyright 2019 Ben Hutchings <benh@debian.org>
.\"
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as
.\" published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of
.\" the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" The GNU General Public License's references to "object code"
.\" and "executables" are to be interpreted as the output of any
.\" document formatting or typesetting system, including
.\" intermediate and printed output.
.\"
.\" This manual is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public
.\" License along with this manual; if not, write to the Free
.\" Software Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139,
.\" USA.
.\"
.TH KERNEL\-IMG.CONF 5 "25 May 2025" Debian "Debian GNU/Linux manual"
.\" NAME should be all caps, SECTION should be 1-8, maybe w/ subsection
.\" other parms are allowed: see man(7), man(1)
.SH NAME
kernel\-img.conf \- configuration file for Linux kernel packages
.SH SYNOPSIS
.I /etc/kernel\-img.conf
.SH DESCRIPTION
The file
.I /etc/kernel\-img.conf
is used by the kernel package installation and removal process to
allow local options for handling some aspects of the installation.
.PP
Not all kernel image package creators support this file:
.TS
nokeep;
l	l.
\fBPackage creator\fR	\fBStatus\fR
Debian linux source package	supported
Ubuntu linux source package	supported
make deb\-pkg	ignored
.TE
.PP
The format of the file is a simple
.IB VAR = VALUE
pair. Boolean values may be specified as
.IR Yes ,
.IR True ,
.IR 1 ,
and
.IR No ,
.IR False ,
.IR 0 ,
and are case insensitive.
This file is automatically created by the installation script in
certain circumstances.
.PP
At the moment, the user modifiable variables supported are:
.TP
.B do_symlinks
If set, the postinst and postrm scripts will maintain symlinks to
default kernel and initramfs images, as described in
\fIlinux\-update\-symlinks\fR(8).  This variable is set by default.
.TP
.B image_dest
Set this variable to the directory in which symlinks to the
default kernel and initramfs images should be maintained.  The
default value is \fI/\fR.
.TP
.B link_in_boot
If set, this has the same effect as \fIimage_dest\ =\ /boot\fR
and overrides any other setting of \fBimage_dest\fR.  This
variable is unset by default.
.SH FILES
The file described here is
.IR /etc/kernel\-img.conf .
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR linux\-update\-symlinks (8)
.SH AUTHOR
This manual page was written by Manoj Srivastava <srivasta@debian.org>
and Ben Hutchings <benh@debian.org> for the Debian GNU/Linux system.
